### Example 8

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = %w(a b c)
a[1] = '-'

p a

On line 5, local variable `a` is initialized pointing to an array object containing string objects as its elements. On line 6, the `[]=` (setter method) is called with the index integer argument `1` on the array object referenced by `a` passing in the string literal `-` as an argument. This modifies the array object at index position `1`, replacing the string `b` with the string literal `-`.

On line 8, the `p` method is called passing in the array object referenced by `a` as an argument. The array ['a', '-', 'c'] is output and returned by the method.

This code demonstrates the concept of mutating methods. Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable. When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

------------

### Example 5

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

words = %w(jump trip laugh run talk)
new_array = words.map do |word|
  word.start_with?("t")
end

p new_array

On line 22, local variable `words` is initialized pointing to an array object containing string objects as elements.

On line 23 we initialize local variable `new_array` to the return value of calling the `map` method on `words`. We define the `map` `do..end` block from lines 23 to 25 with one block parameter of `word`. During each iteration we pass in the current element assigning it to the block parameter `word`. `map` is used for transformation, and returns a new array containing elements transformed during each iteration. The return value of the block during each iteration is the value that is added to the new array. On line 24, the `start_with?` method is called on the string object referenced by `word` passing in the string literal `'t'` as an argument. If the referenced value of `word` begins with the letter `'t'`, a boolean `true` is returned by the block, if not `false` is returned; that return value is added to the new array. When iteration is complete, local variable `new_array` is assigned the return value from the method call on `words`.

On line 27, we call the `p` method, passing in the value referenced by `new_array` as an argument. The array object [false, true, false, false, true] is output and returned.

This code demonstrates the concept of iteration and transformation using the `map` method: The map method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration. map always performs transformation via the return value of the block during each each iteration. The return value of the block is the evaluated result of the last line executed, which is placed into a new collection. When the map method has completed iterating, the new collection is returned.

------------

### Example 5

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def greetings(str)  
  puts str  
  puts "Goodbye"
end

word = "Hello"
greetings(word)

On line 48, local variable `word` is initialized pointing to the string object with the value `'Hello'`. On line 49, we call the `greetings` method, passing in the value refrenced by `word` in place of method parameter `str`.

On line 44, the `puts` method is called on the value referenced by method local variable `str`, which is the same value referenced by top level local variable `word`. This outputs `'Hello'`. On line 45, the `puts` method is called again, passing in the string literal `'Goodbye'` as an argument. This outputs `'Goodbye'` and returns `nil`, which is also the implicit return value from the method, as it is the return value of the last evaluated expression of the method.

This code demonstrates the concept of pass-by-reference as an object passing strategy. This code demonstrates the concept of pass-by-reference. Ruby appears to act like pass-by-reference when working with mutable objects. When a reference to an object is passed into a method, and the method local variable aliased to that reference is not reassigned to a new object, thus returning the original (mutated) object from the method, this is referred as pass-by-reference with the language using a pass-by-reference object passing strategy.