What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def fix(value)
  value = value.upcase!
  value.concat('!')
end
  
  s = 'hello'
  t = fix(s)

What values do `s` and `t` have? Why?

On `line 8` we initialize local variable `s` to the string `hello`. On `line 9`, we initialize local variable `t` to the return value of calling the `fix` method and passing in `s`, which references the string object with the value `hello`, as an argument.

On `line 3`, we bind the string `hello` to the method parameter `value`. Within the method, we change the value of the string referenced by `value` when we call the destructive/mutating `#upcase` method on the string object referenced by `value`. The new value of the string object is `HELLO`. We then call the `#concat` method on `value` which appends `!` to the string object it references, and the return value of this call is also the return value of the method. This return value `HELLO!` is assigned to the local variable `t`. Since `s` references the same string object that was mutated during the `fix` method call (now assigned to `t` as well), it also points to the string object with the value of `HELLO!`.

There is no output from this code snippet. This code snippet demonstrates the concept of mutating methods: "When one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently during a method call/method invocation, you are MUTATING THE ARGUMENT". It also demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers: Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specific area within memory which contains the value.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
new_array = arr.select do |n|
  n + 1
end

p new_array

On `line 23` we initialize local variable `arr` to an array object of integers. On `line 24` we initialize local variable `new_array` and assign it the return value of calling the `#select` method on `arr`. `#select` returns a new array based on the block's return value.

We define the `#select` `do..end` block from `lines 24 to 26` with one block parameter of `n`. On each iteration, we pass in the current element from `arr` and it is assigned to the block parameter `n`. `n + 1` returns a `truthy` value to the block on each iteration, so the current integer element referenced by `n` is selected. After iteration is complete, `#select` will return a new collection containing all of the selected elements `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]` and it is assigned to `new_array`.

On `line 28`, we call the `p` method and pass in `new_array` as an argument. This will output `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]`, and will return `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]` because `p` returns its caller.

This code snippit is an example of iteration with the `#select` method to perform selection of objects.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]

incremented = arr.map do |n|
  n + 1
end

p incremented

On line 42, local vairable `arr` is initialized and assigned to the array object of integers `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]`. 

On line 44, we initialize local variable `incremented` equal to the return value of calling `#map` on `arr`. When `map` is called on arr, we pass in the `do..end` block with one block parameter of `n` on lines 44 to 46 as an argument. `#map` returns a new array based on the blocks return value, and each element is transformed based on the blocks return value. During each iteration, the current element from the array referenced by `arr` is passed in and assigned to the block parameter `n`. 

On line 45, we obtain the return value of the block when evaluating the `n + 1` expression. During the first iteration (for example), `n` is assigned to the integer value `1`. When we evaluate `n + 1`, we are returned the integer `2`. This return value is added to a new collection. During the second iteration, `n` is assigned the integer `2`; `n + 1` evaluates and returns the integer value `3`. This pattern continues until the method returns the new collection: `[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11]`. This return value is assigned to the local variable `incremented`

On line 48, we call the `p` method and pass in `incremented` as an argument. This outputs `[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11]`, and returns `[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11]` since `p` returns its caller.

This code snippet demonstrates the concept of iteration and transformation via the `#map` method.