### Example 2 (6:00 min)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

n = 101.times do |n|
  n = 11
end

puts n

ON line 5, the `times` method is called on the integer literal `101`. The `do..end` block is defined with one block parameter of `n`. The `times` method will execute 101 times, passing in the integers 0 to 101 during each iteration, and assigning that integer to block variable `n`.

On line 6, the value referenced by `n` is reassigned to a new integer object with the value of `11`, this occurs during each block execution. When the `times` method completes execution, it always returns its caller; `101`. On line 5, local variable `n` is initialized to this return value as well.

On line 9, the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `n`. This outputs the string representation of integer `101`, and returns `nil`.

This code demonstrates the concept of variable shadwoing.

When a block parameter (captured between the `||` symbols) has the same variable name as a local variable initialized in the outer scope, the block parameter shadows the outer scoped local variable. When this occurs, access to the outer scope local variable is prevented.

------------------------------------------------

### Example 4 (8:10 mins because I needed to reference String Interpolation verbiage)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def test(b)
  b.map {|letter| "I like the letter: #{letter}"}
end

a = ['a', 'b', 'c']
test(a)

The above code will return the array object `["I like the letter: a", "I like the letter: b", "I like the letter: c"]`, with no output.

ON line 31, local variable `a` is initialized to an array object with string objects as elements. On line 32, the `test` method is called, passing in the array referenced by `a` as an argument in place of the method parameter `b`.

The `map` method returns a new array with the return values of each block iteration. ON line 28, `map` is called on the array reference by method local variable `b`. The block is defined by `{}` (curly braces) with one block parameter of `letter`. Each iteration, the current element from `b` is passed in and assigned to `letter`. Via string interpolation, the returned expression from `"#{letter}"` is concatenated with its surrounding string, becoming the blocks return value. When itertaion is completed, the `map` methods return value is also the `test` methods return value of `["I like the letter: a", "I like the letter: b", "I like the letter: c"]`.

THis code demonstrates mutating methods and iteration/transformation with the `map` method:

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: `array.pop` permanently alters `array` by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

The `map` method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration. `map` always performs transformation via the return value of the block during each iteration. The return value of the block is the evaluated result of the last line executed, which is placed into a new collection. When the `map` method has completed iterating, the new collection is returned.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 4 (7:25 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def fix(value)
  value = value.upcase!
  value.concat('!')
end

s = 'hello'
t = fix(s)

What values do `s` and `t` have? Why?

From the `fix` method and local variables `s` and `t`, `'HELLO!'` is returned, there is no output.

On line 58, local variable `s` is initialized pointing to the string object with the value `hello`. ON line 59, local variable `t` is initialized to the return value of calling the `fix` method, passing in the value referenced by `s` as an argument in place of method parameter `value`.

Within the method (line 54), the destructive/mutating `upcase!` method is called on the value referenced by `value`. This looks like reassigment; however, because it mutates the original object in place, (it does not return a new string), `value` points to the same object. On line 55, the destructive `concat` method also mutates the string object referenced by `value`.

Because there was no reassignment within the method to point value to a different object, local variable `s` and method local variable `value` still reference the same object that is returned from the `fix` method; `'HELLO!'`.

THis code demonstrates the concept of mutating methods, and variables as pointers:

Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specific area within memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a different address space.

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

-------------------------------------------------------------