### Example 5 (7:30 mins - Includes re-reading and modification as needed)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].each_with_index do |num, index|
  puts "The index of #{num} is #{index}."
end
```

On line 1, the `each_with_index` method is called on the array object `[1, 2, 3]`. A `do..end` block with two parameters `num` and `index` is defined and passed into the method. On each iteration, the current element is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter `num`. The index position of each element in the calling collection is passed into the block and assigned to the `index` parameter. On line 2, the `puts` method is called, passing in the returned expression from `"#{num}"` and `"#{index}"` being concatenated with its surrounding string. The output is the following on three lines:

```
The index of 1 is 0.
The index of 2 is 1.
The index of 3 is 2.
```

The `each_with_object` method does not consider the return value of the block. The `puts` method call is the last evaluated expression of the method; however, when done iteration, `each_with_object` returns its original caller; `[1, 2, 3]`.

This code demonstrates the concept of iteration via the `each_with_object` method:
The `each_with_index` method is called on a collection taking a block with two parameters. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the first block parameter, with the second block parameter representing the index position of each element in the calling collection. The code is then executed for each iteration, with the `each_with_index` method not considering the return value of the block, until iteration is complete. Once the `each_with_index` method is done iterating, it returns its caller (the ORIGINAL COLLECTION). Of note, when used with a hash, the first block parameter represents an array containing the key and the value.

---------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 6 (9:14 - Includes some checking while going through the explination)
### Did this 3 more times, result is the next pasted code description

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }.each_with_object([]) do |pair, array|
  array << pair.last
end
```

On line 1, the `each_with_object` method is called passing in the array object `{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }`, passing in an empty array object as an argument. A `do..end` block is defined with two parameters `pair`, and `array`, which is passed into the method. During iteration, the current key/value pair is converted to a two element array, and assigned to the block parameter `pair`. The object passed into the method as an argument (array) is assigned to the `array` block parameter.

On line 2, the `last` method is called on the array referenced by block local variable `pair` which will return the last element in the array (first iteration for example would return `'ant'`). The `<<` method is called on the array referenced by block local variable `array` passing in the return value from `last` as an argument. This appends (shovels in) the return value to `array` (after the first iteration, the `array` would be [`'ant'`]). This is the last evaluated expression of the method, and when iteration is completed the `each_with_object` method returns the populated array object that was passed into the method as an argument. `["ant", "bear", "cat"]`

This code demonstrates iteration via the `each_with_object` method:
The `each_with_object` method is called on a collection taking a block with two parameters; the first is the current element of the collection, and the second is the collection object that is passed in as an argument to the method. During iteration, the collection object passed in as an argument can be manipulated inside of the block. After iteration is completed, the populated collection object passed into the method as an argument is returned, NOT the original collection `each_with_object` was called on.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 6 (8:04 mins - Includes re-reading and modifications)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }.each_with_object([]) do |pair, array|
  array << pair.last
end
```

On line 1, the `each_with_object` method is called on the hash object `{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }`, passing in an empty array object as an argument. A `do..end` block is defined with two parameters `pair` and `array` and passed into the method. During each iteration, the current element (key/value pair) is passed into the block as a two element array, and is assigned to block parameter `pair`. The array object passed into the method as an argument is passed into the block and assigned to block parameter `array`.

On line 2, the return value of calling the `last` method on the value referenced by block local variable `pair` is appended to the array referenced by block local variable `array` via the `<<` method; the array looks like this after the first iteration `['ant']`. This is the last and only expression in the block and is the return value of each block iteration. Once the `each_with_object` method is completed iteration, it returns the manipulated object passed in as an argument to the method; `["ant", "bear", "cat"]`.

This code demonstrates iteration and object manipulation via the `each_with_object` method:
The `each_with_object` method is called on a collection taking a block with two parameters; the first is the current element of the collection, and the second is the collection object that is passed in as an argument to the method. During iteration, the collection object passed in as an argument can be manipulated inside of the block. After iteration is completed, the populated collection object passed into the method as an argument is returned, NOT the original collection `each_with_object` was called on.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 11 (4:57 - Includes re-reading for accuracy)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].each do |num|
  puts num
end
```

On line 1, the `each` method is called on the array object `[1, 2, 3]`. A `do..end` block with one parameter of `num` is passed into the method. ON each iteration, the current value is passed into the block and assigned to block parameter `num`. On line 2, the `puts` method is called passing in as an argument the value referenced by block local variable `num`. On each iteration this will output the string representation of `num` on separate lines as follows:
```ruby
1
2
3
```
When iteration is completed, `each` will return its caller; `[1, 2, 3]`.

This code demonstrates iteration via the `each` method:
The `each` method is called on a collection taking a block with one parameter. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration, with the `each` method not considering the return value of the block, until `each` is done iterating. Once the `each` method is done iterating, it returns its caller (the ORIGINAL COLLECTION).

-----------------------------------------------------------

### Example 1 (3:51 - Includes checking for accuracy)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
a = “Hello”
b = a
a = “Goodbye”

puts a
puts b
```

On line 1, local variable `a` is initialized pointing to the string `'Hello'`. Local variable `b` is initialized to the value referenced by `a`. Currently, both `a` and `b` reference the same string object. On line 3, `a` is reassigned to a different string object with the value `'Goodbye'`.

On line 5, the `puts` method is called on the value referenced by `a`, outputting `'Goodbye'` and returning `nil`. On line 6, the `puts` method is called on the value referenced by `b`, outputting `'Hello'` and returning `nil`.

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers. Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specified location memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a separate address space.

----------------------------------------------------------

### Example 2 (8:45 mins - Includes re-reading for accuracy and modifications before re-reading.

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
a = 4

loop do
  a = 5
  b = 3

  break
end

puts a
puts b
```

On line 1, local variable `a` is in initialized pointing to the integer object with the value of `4`. On line 3, the `loop` method is called. A `do..end` block is defined on lines 3 to 8. Local variable `a` is accessible due to variable scoping rules; therefore, on line 4 `a` is reassigned to the integer `5`. Block local variable `b` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value of `3`.

After exiting the loop, on line 10, the `puts` method is called passing in the value referenced by `a` as an argument, which outputs the string representation of integer `5`, and returns `nil`. Due to variable scoping rules, when the `puts` method is called on line 11 on `b`, an exception is thrown. `NameError (undefined local variable or method `b' for main:Object)`. This is because `b` was initialized within the `loop` method and outer scope cannot access variables initialized within an inner scope.

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope. To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block.
Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.

---------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 3 (6:00 mins - Includes re-reading for accuracy)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
a = 4
b = 2

loop do  
  c = 3  
  a = c  
  break
end

puts a
puts b
```

On line 1, local variable `a` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `4`. On line 2, local variable `b` is in initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `2`. The `loop` method is called on line 4 and a `do..end` block is defined from lines 4 to 8. 

On line 5, block local variable `c` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `3`. On line 6, outer scoped local variable `a` is reassigned to the value referenced by block local variable `c`, at which point both `a` and `c` reference the same object, and the loop is exited. The `puts` method is called on line 10 passing in the value referenced by local variable `a` as an argument, which outputs the string representation of the integer `3` and returns `nil`. On line 11, the `puts` method is called passing in the value referenced by local variable `b` as an argument, which outputs the string representation of the integer `2` and returns `nil`.

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers. Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specified location memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a separate address space.

-------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 4 (8:45 - Includes re-reading and looking for any other concepts that could be applicable)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
def example(str)
  i = 3  
  loop do    
    puts str    
    i -= 1    
    break if i == 0  
  end
end

example('hello')
```

On line 10, the `example` method is called, passing in the string `'hello'` as an argument in place of method parameter `str`. On line 3, method local variable `i` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `3`. The `loop` method is called on line 3, and a `do..end` block is defined on lines 3 to 7 and passed into the method.

On each loop, the following occurs. The `puts` method is called passing in the value referenced by method local variable `str` (`'hello'`) as an argument which outputs `'hello'`. `i` is decremented via the `i - 1` expression. The `break` keyword is used to exit the loop if the value referenced by `i` is equal to 0.

The loop method executes 3 times before the `break` keyword exits the loop, which outputs `'hello'` on 3 separate lines. The `break` keyword returns `nil` which is the last evalueated expression of the `example` method and returns `nil`.

This code demonstrates the concept of looping with the `loop` method and implicit method return values.

------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 5 (7:18 - Includes description validation and deciding to add puts vs return information)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
def greetings(str)  
  puts str  
  puts "Goodbye"
end

word = "Hello"
greetings(word)
```

On line 6 local varibale `word` is initialized ponting to the string object with the value `'Hello'`. On line 7, the `greetings` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `word` as an argument in place of method parameter `str`. On line 2, the `puts` method is called passing in the value referenced by `str` (the same value as `word`) as an argument, which outputs `'Hello'`. On line 3, the `puts` method is called passing in the string `'Goodbye'`, which outputs '`Goodbye'`. Because `puts` is the last evaluated expression of the method, `nil` is returned by both the `puts` method and the `greetings` method.

This code demonstrates the concepts of `puts` vs return.

The puts method when called and passed in an object, or a reference to an object, as an argument will print (or output) it to the screen. puts returns nil, not what was output to the screen (nil is a way for Ruby to represent ‘nothing’).

Ruby methods implicitly return the evaluated result of the last line of code executed within the method. If an explicit return value is required from a method, the return keyword is used within the method to explicitly return that value.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 6 (8:01 mins - Includes re-reading and validation)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
arr = [1, 2, 3, 4]
counter = 0
sum = 0

loop do  
  sum += arr[counter]  
  counter += 1  
  break if counter == arr.size
end 

puts "Your total is #{sum}"
```

On line 1, local variable `arr` is initialized to the array object `[1, 2, 3, 4]`. Local variables `counter` and `sum` ar initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `0`. On line 5, the `loop` method is called with a `do..end` block defined from lines 5 to 9.

Within the loop, the `[]` method is called with the integer argument of the value of `counter`. The return value of this method is added to the value of `sum` via the `+` operator. The value of `counter` is incremented via the return value of `counter` + 1. When the value of `counter` is equal to the value of the return value from calling the `size` method on the array referenced by `arr`, the loop exits.

Finally, the `puts` method is called, passing in the returned expression from `"#{sum}"` being concatenated with its surrounding string as an argument. This outputs `Your total is 10` and returns `nil`.

This code demonstrates looping via the loop method and working with array objects.

--------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 7 (7:20 - Includes review and slight modifications for accuracy)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
a = 'Bob'

5.times do |x|  
  a = 'Bill'
end

p a
```

On line 1, local variable `a` is initialized pointing to the string object with the value `'Bob'`. On line 3, the `times` method is called on the integer `5` (which tells the method to execute 5 consecutive times. A `do..end` block is defined on lines 3 to 5 with one block parameter of `x`. The block variable is not used, but on each block execution, local variable `a` is reassigned to a new string object with the value of `'Bill'`. Top level local variable `a` is accessible within the `times` method due to variable scoping rules which allows inner scope access to variables initialized in an outer scope.

On line 7, the `p` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `a` as an argument. This outputs and returns `'Bill'`.

This code demonstrates the concept of variable scope:
To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block.
Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.

-----------------------------------------------------------------


