### Example 7

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def plus(x, y)
  x = x + y
end

a = 3
b = plus(a, 2)

puts a
puts b

On line 7, local variable `a` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `3`. On line 8, the `plus` method is called passing in the value referenced by `a` and the integer literal `2` in place for method parameters `x` and `y` respectively. 

On line 4, the `+` method is called on the value referenced by `x` passing in the value referenced by `y` as an argument; the return value of this call is a new integer object with the value of `5`. Method local variable `x` is reassigned to this return value, and the method implicitly returns this value as it is the last expression evaluated in the method. On line 8, local variable `b` is assigned the return value from the `plus` method, which is the integer `5`.

On line 10 the `puts` method is called and passed in the value referenced by `a`, which outputs the string representation of integer 3, and returns `nil`. Local variable `a` and method local variable `x` are no longer referencing the same integer object after reassignment on line 4. Integers are immutable, so it is impossible for methods to mutate them.

On line 11, the `puts` method is called and passed in the value referenced by `b`, which outputs the string representation of integer 5, and returns `nil`

This code demonstrates the concept of non-mutating methods and pass-by-value object passing strategy:

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.

This code demonstrates the concept of pass-by-value. Ruby appears to act like pass-by-value when working with immutable objects and reassignment within a method. When an object is copied before being passed around (i.e.: passing the copied object into a method as an argument), this is referred to as a language using a pass-by-value object passing strategy. Because the object or objects passed in are only copies of the original object, there is no way for the method to mutate (modify) the original object.