### Example 3 (7:16 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = [1, 2, 3, 3]
b = a
c = a.uniq

What are a, b, and c? What if the last line was `c = a.uniq!`?

The above code from line 7 returns the array object of `[1, 2, 3]`. No output is displayed.

On line 5, the local variable `a` is initialized pointing to the array object `[1, 2, 3, 3]`. This value is not changed by the `a.uniq` method call on line 7. ON line 6, local variable `b` is initialized to the array referenced by `a`.

On line 7, the non-mutating `uniq` method is called on the array referenced by `a`. This method call returns a new array with duplicates removed; therefore, not mutating the array referenced by `a`. Local variable `c` is then initialized to the return value of this method call; `[1, 2, 3]`.

If the last line was a call to the destructive `uniq!` method, then the array referenced by `a` would me mutated in place, removing the duplicate integer `3` element, then initializing local variable `c` to that same array: `[1, 2, 3]`

This concept demonstrates variables as pointers and mutating vs non-mutating methods:
Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specific area within memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a different address space.

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable. When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: `array.pop` permanently alters `array` by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

---------------------------------

### Example 9 (6:22)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def change_name(name)
  name = 'bob'      # does this reassignment change the object outside the method?
end

name = 'jim'
change_name(name)
puts name

On line 36, the `puts` method is called, passing in the string objects value referenced by `name` (`jim`). This outputs `jim` and returns `nil`.

On line 35, when the `change_name` method is called passing in `name` as the argument in place for the method parameter `name`, the value of the method local variable `name` evaluates to `jim`. Once the `=` operator is used for reassignment on line 31, method local variable `name` and top-level local variable `name` no longer reference the same string object. While the method does return `bob` after reassignment, the top-level `name` local variable is not used for reassignment outside of the method; therefore, its value of `jim` remains.

This code demonstrates the concept of pass-by-value object passing strategy, and non-mutating methods:
Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are not altered permanently, it is a non-mutating method. Similarly, when an object or referenced object used to call a method is not mutated (i.e.: `String#upcase` does not modify the original string object, it copies the original object, mutates the copy by converting the value to uppercase and returns a reference to the new string object), it is a non-mutating method call.

This code demonstrates the concept of pass-by-value. Ruby appears to act like pass-by-value when working with immutable objects and reassignment within a method. When an object is copied before being passed around (i.e.: passing the copied object into a method as an argument), this is referred to as a language using a pass-by-value object passing strategy. Because the object or objects passed in are only copies of the original object, there is no way for the method to mutate (modify) the original object.

--------------------------------------------------

### Example 4 (6:33 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
new_array = arr.select do |n|
  n + 1
  puts n
end

p new_array

On line 60, when the `p` method is called, passing in the array object referenced by `new_array`, `[]` is output, and `[]` is returned (`p` returns its caller).

On line 55, when calling `select` on the array object referenced by local variable `arr` (`[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]`), the return value of the method is going to be based on the truthiness of each block return value. `select` returns a new array based on the evaluation of each blocks truthiness; therefore, when the `puts` method is called on line 57, the return value from that call is returned to the block (`nil`) which is not truthy. This occurs for every iteration, so no elements are added to the new array. When `new_array` is initialized, it is initialized to the empty array object returned by `select`.

This code demonstrates the condept of iteration with the `select` method, and truthiness.

The `select` method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration. To perform selection, the return value of the block is evaluated by `select` after each iteration; `select` only cares about the truthiness of this return value. When a blocks return value is truthy, the element during that iteration is selected and placed into a new collection; otherwise, the element is not selected. The return value of the last expression within the block is the return value of the block during each iteration. When the `select` method has completed iterating through the collection, a new collection is returned that contains all of the selected elements.

Truthiness is not the same as talking about true vs false. Within the Ruby language, everything except the two falsy values (false and nil) are considered truthy values. This is not the same as saying an expression that truthy is a boolean true object; likewise, it does not mean an expression that falsy is a boolean false object.

--------------------------------------------

### Example 7 (6:16 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
incremented = arr.map do |n|
  n + 1            
end

p incremented

ON line 83, the `p` method is called, passing in the array object referenced by local variable `incremented`. This outputs and returns `[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11]`.

`map` returns a new array based off of the blocks return value during iteration. On line 79, `map` is called on the array object referenced by local variable `arr` (`[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]`). Within the `do..end` block, when the current element is passed in and assigned to the block parameter `n`, the `+` method is called on the value referenced by block variable `n` passing in the integer `1` as an argument. The return value of this call for each iteration is passed into the new array.

Once iteration is completed, `map` returns the new array `[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11]`. `incremented` is then initialized pointing to this returned array.

This code demonstrates the concept of iteration and transformation with the `map` method.
The `map` method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration. `map` always performs transformation via the return value of the block during each iteration. The return value of the block is the evaluated result of the last line executed, which is placed into a new collection. When the `map` method has completed iterating, the new collection is returned.

------------------------------

### Example 2 (5:45 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def test
  puts "written assessment"
end

var = test

if var
  puts "written assessment"
else  
  puts "interview"
end

The above calls the `puts` method on line 109 passing in the string literal `'interview'` as an argument. This outputs `'interview'` and returns `nil`.

On line 104, when local variable `var` is initialized, it is done so to the object returned by the call to `test`. Within the `test` method, the one expression calling `puts` returns `nil` from the method, which is falsy. This return value is what `var` points to. When the `if` conditional statment evaluates `var` it returns a falsy value triggering the code within the `each` branch.

This code demonstrates the concept of truthiness:
Truthiness is not the same as talking about `true` vs `false`. Within the Ruby language, everything except the two falsy values (`false` and `nil`) are considered truthy values. This is not the same as saying an expression that truthy is a boolean `true` object; likewise, it does not mean an expression that falsy is a boolean `false` object.

-------------------------------

### Example 8 (8:30 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

animal = "dog"

loop do |_|  
  animal = "cat"  
  var = "ball"  
  break
end

puts animal
puts var

On line 133, the `puts` method is called on the string object referenced by local variable `animal`. This outputs `'cat'`, and returns `nil`. On line 134, the `puts` method is called on the string object referenced by local variable `var`. This throws an 'undefined local variable or method' error.

`animal` is a top-level local variable, which is able to be referenced/modified within the `loop` methods scope due to variable scoping rules. However, due to those same scoping rules, because `var` was initialized in the inner scope, it is not accessable in the top-level outer scope. When we call `puts` on line 134, there is no variable with that name initialized in the top-level/outer scope.

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope. To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block.
Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.

-----------------------------------------------------

### Example 5 (5:40 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = 5.2
b = 7.3
a = b
b += 1.1

What is `a` and `b`? Why?

Local variable `a` references the float object with a value of `7.3`, while local variable `b` references the float object with the value of `8.4`.

Local variable `a` was initially initialized to reference a float object with the value of `5.2`, and `b` to the value of `7.3`. On line 151, `a` was reassigned to the value referenced by `b`. Both referenced the same object; however, on line 152, `b` was then reassigned to point to the object that references the return value of calling the `+` method on the value referenced by `b` passing in the arguement of float literal `1.1`.

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers. Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specific area within memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a different address space.

-------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 4 (6:52 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def example(str)
  i = 3  
  loop do    
    puts str    
    i -= 1    
    break if i == 0  
  end
end

example('hello')

The above code returns `nil` from the `break` keyword being the last evaluated expression within the `example` method, and outputs the string `'hello'` three times.

When the `example` method is called, passing in the string literal `hello` it is assigned in place of the method parameter `str`. Inside of the method, method local variable `i` is initialized in the methods outer scope to the integer object with the value of `3`. When the `loop` method is called, the first line of code outputs the value referenced by `str`, then `i` is reassigned to the return value of calling the `-` method on its value, passing in the integer `1` as an arguement.

`i` is accessable in the inner scope and can be manipulated because of vairable scoping rules that allow access to vairables initialized in an outer scope. The `break` keyword will exit the loop once `i` is equal to 0. 

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope. To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block.
Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.