### Example 4 (7:00 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def example(str)
  i = 3  
  loop do    
    puts str    
    i -= 1    
    break if i == 0  
  end
end

example('hello')

The above code outputs the string object with the value `'hello'` 3 consecutive times and returns `nil`.

On line 14 the `example` method is called, passing in the string literal `'hello'` as an argument in place for the method parameter `str`. Within the method, method local variable `i` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `3`. The `loop` method is calle don line 7, passing in the `do..end` block from lines 7 to 11. The `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `str` which outputs `'hello'`. On line 9, `i` is reassigned to the return value of `i - 1`. Access to `i` is available within the `loop`s scope because the variable was initialized in the outer scope. On line 10, the `break` keyword will exit the loop once the conditional `if` statement returns true when evaluating if `i` is equal to `0`.

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope. To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block.
Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.

----------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 7 (5:45 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = 'Bob'

5.times do |x|  
  a = 'Bill'
end

p a

On line 35, the `p` method is called, passing in the value referenced by local variable `a` as an argument. This outputs `'Bill'` and returns `'Bill'` as `p` returns its caller.

On line 29, local variable `a` is initialized to the string object with the value `'Bob'`. The `times` method is called on the integer `5` which determines how many times method iterates. The `do..end` block with one parameter of `x` on lines 31 to 33 is passed into the method as an argument. The method has access to the outer scoped `a` local variable due to variable scoping rules. On line 32, `a` is reassigned to the string literal `'Bill'` each time the method iterates. The `times` method returns `5` as it returns its caller.

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope. To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block. Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.

--------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 2 (5:25 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = "hi there"
b = a
a << ", Bob"

What are a and b?

Local variables `a` and `b` reference the same string object with the value `'hi there, Bob'`.

On line 49, local variable `a` is initialized pointing to the string object with the value `'hi there'`. On line 50, local variable `b` is initialized to the value referenced by `a`; therefore, they now both reference the same string object. On line 51, `', Bob'` is concatentated to the string object referenced by `a`. This is a destructive method which permanently mutates the string objects value. 

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers and mutating methods.
Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specified location memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a separate address space.

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 12 (14:30 mins)

arr1 = ["a", "b", "c"]
arr2 = arr1.dup
arr2.map! do |char|
  char.upcase
end

puts arr1 
puts arr2

On line 73, the `puts` method is called passing in the array referenced by `arr1`. This outputs `a`, `b`, `c` on individual lines. Then `puts` is called passing in the array referenced by `arr2`. This outputs `A`, `B`, `C`. 

On line 67, local variable `arr1` is initialzied to the array object `["a", "b", "c"]`. On line 68, local variable `arr2` is initialized to a shallow copy of the array referenced by `arr1`. `arr1` and `arr2` will reference separate array objects; however, the array elements are shared between both.

On line 69, the destructive `map!` method is called on the `arr2`, passing in the `do..end` block with one parameter of `char` on lines 69 to 71. On each iteration, the current element will be passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter `char`. The `upcase` method is called on the value referenced by `char` on each iteration. The return value from this method call is the blocks return value on each iteration. When this value is returned to `map!` it will be used to replace the current elements object with the transformed object at that arrays index position. 

The first iteration will assign `'a'` to `char`, it will be converted to uppercase, `'A'` and becomes the block return value, then replaces `'a'` at index position 0. Once iteration is completed, the mutated array is returned by the `map!` method; `["A", "B", "C"]`.

This code demonstrates variables as pointers, mutating methods, and iteration and transformation with the `map!` method.

Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specified location memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a separate address space.

The `map!` method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration. `map!` always performs transformation via the return value of the block during each iteration. The return value of the block is the evaluated result of the last line executed, which is used to replace the current element in place in the array `map!` is called on. When the `map!` method has completed iterating, the mutated collection is returned.

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 11

What is `arr`? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = [1, 3]
b = [2]
arr = [a, b]
arr
a[1] = 5
arr

`arr` references the array object `[[1, 5], [2]]`.

On line 98, local variable `a` is initialzied to the array object `[1, 3]`. On line 99, local variable `b` is initialized to the array object `[2]`. Local variable `arr` is initialzied to an array object with the arrays referenced by `a` and `b` as its elements. The nested array is currently `[[1, 3], [2]]`. On line 102, the `[]=` method is called on the array referenced by `a` passing in the integer `1` as an arguemnt which will assign the integer `5` to index position 1 of the array. The array referenced by `a` is now `[1, 5]`. Because `arr` has a reference to the same array object within its nested array, its values also reflect this change.

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers.
Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specified location memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a separate address space.