### Example 6 (5:09 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def test(str)
  str  += '!'
  str.downcase!
end

test_str = 'Written Assessment'
test(test_str)
puts test_str

ON line 12, the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by local variable `test_str`. This outputs `Written Assessment` and returns `nil`.

On line 11, the `test` method is called, passing in the value referenced by local variable `test_str` as an argument in place for method parameter `str`. On line 6, the value referenced by method local variable `str` is reassigned to a new object by the call to the `+` (fake) operator method. From this point on, any changes to `str` affect that new object. The method will return `'written assessment!'`, but it is not assigned to any variable.

This code demonstrates the concept of mutating vs non-mutating methods: 
Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

----------------------------------------------------------

