### Example 4

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }.all? do |key, value|
  value.length >= 3
end

On line 5, the `all?` method is called on the hash object `{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }`. The `do..end` block with two parameters is passed in as an argument to the method. On each iteration, the current element (key/value pair) is passed in and assigned to the block parameters `key` and `value` respectively; `a:` and `'ant'` on the first iteration. During each iteration, the truthiness of the blocks return value determines the `any?` methods `true` or `false` return value. If all of the block return values are truthy, then the method returns `true`.

On line 6, the `>=` method is called on the return value of the `length` method being called on the current iterations value referenced by `value`, passing in the argument of integer `3`. If the length of the current `value` is greater than or equal to 3, the `length` method returns `true` to the block. The return value of the `all?` method is `true` because all values in the hash are greater than or equal to 3 characters in length.

This code demonstrates using the `any?` method for iteration, and the concept of truthiness: 
The any? method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current element is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The truthiness of the blocks return value during each iteration is used in determining the any methods return value of true or false. The any method only requires one block return value being truthy for the method to return true; however, if all block iterations return a falsy value, the method returns.

Truthiness is not the same as talking about true vs false. Within the Ruby language, everything accept the two falsy values (false and nil) are considered truthy values. This is not the same as saying an expression that truthy is a boolean true object; likewise, it does not mean an expression that falsy is a boolean false object.

-------------

### Example 8 (7:01 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def increment(x)
  x << 'b'
end

y = 'a'
increment(y) 
puts y

On line 28, local variable `y` is initialized pointing to the string literal `a`. On line 29, the `increment` method is called passing in the value referenced by `y` in place of the method parameter `x`. Top level local variable `y` and method local variable `x` reference the same object

On line 25, the `<<` method is called on the value referenced by method local variable `x` passing in the string literal `b` as an argument. This appends `b` to the string object and the return value of this method call is also the return value from the `increment` method because it is the last evaluated expression in the method.

On line 30, the `puts` method is called on the value referenced by `y`. This outputs `'ab'` and returns `nil`.

This code demonstrates the concept of pass-by-reference object passing strategy during a method invocation.

Ruby appears to act like pass-by-reference when working with mutable objects. When a reference to an object is passed into a method, and the method local variable aliased to that reference is not reassigned to a new object, thus returning the original (mutated) object from the method, this is referred as pass-by-reference with the language using a pass-by-reference object passing strategy.

--------------------

### Example 6 (12:18 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

arr = [1, 2, 3, 4]
counter = 0
sum = 0

loop do  
  sum += arr[counter]  
  counter += 1  
  break if counter == arr.size
end 

puts "Your total is #{sum}"

On line 48, local variable `arr` is initialized pointing to the array object contiaining integer objects as its elements `[1, 2, 3, 4]`. ON line 49, local variable `counter` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `0`. On line 50, local variable `sum` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value `0`.

On line 52, the `loop` method is called. The `do..end` block on lines 52 to 56 is defined and passed into the method as an argument. On line 53, the `+` method is called on the value referenced by `sum`, passing in the array element at the current index defined by the value referenced by `counter` as an argument. During the first loop, `sum` references `0`, and `arr[counter]` references `arr[0]` which is the integer value `1`. The return value of the expression `0 + 1` is `1` and `sum` is reassigned to this return value.

ON line 54, the `+` method is called again on the value referenced by `counter` passing in the integer literal `1` as an arguement; `0 + 1` evaluates to `1`, and `counter` is reassigned to this return value. On line 55, the `size` method is called on the array referenced by `arr`, returning the integer `4`. If the value of `counter` is equal to the size of `arr`, the `break` keyword is used to exit the loop, and `nil` is returned.

On line 58, the `puts` method is called, passing in a string with string interpoaltion allowing the return value of the `#{sum}` expression to be converted to string output within the string passed in as an argument. The output is `'Your total is 10'`, and `nil` is returned.

This code demonstrates how to work with arrays, looping, and reassignment.

-------------------------

### Example 2 (6:16 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

n = 101.times do |n|
  n = 11
end

puts n

On line 80, the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `n` as an argument. This outputs the string representation of the integer `101`, and returns `nil`.

On line 76, the `times` method is called on the integer literal `101`, passing in a `do..end` block from lines 76 to 78 with one block parameter of `n`. The return value of the `times` method is its caller; integer literal `101`. Local variable `n` is then assigned to point that return value integer object.

Local varibale `n` and the `do..end` block parameter `n` do not reference the same object do to variable shadowing rules. When a block parameter (captured between the || symbols) has the same variable name as a local variable initialized in the outer scope, the block parameter shadows the outer scoped local variable. When this occurs, access to the outer scope local variable is prevented.

-------------------------

### Example 4 (6:17 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def test(b)
  b.map { |letter| "I like the letter: #{letter}" }
end

a = ['a', 'b', 'c']
test(a)

What is `a`? What if we called `map!` instead of `map`?

Local variable `a` references the array object `['a', 'b', 'c']`. If `map!` was called instead, the array object would be `["I like the letter: a", "I like the letter: g", "I like the letter: c"]`

Within the `test` method call, the `map` method is used to create a new array object based on the return value of each block iteration. Once iteration is completed, map returns the new array, which is the return value from the `test` method; however, this return value is never assigned to a variable, therefore, nothing is done with it. If `map!` was called instead, it would change the elements within the array referenced by local variable `a` (method local variable `b`) in place during each iteration, returning a mutated array.

This code demonstrates the concept of non-mutating methods:
Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.

-----------------------

### Example 10 (7 mins) (GOT WRONG, this IS a mutating method; line 117 mutates)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def add_name(arr, name)
  arr = arr << name
end

names = ['bob', 'kim']
add_name(names, 'jim')
puts names

On line 120 local variable `names` is initialized pointing to the array object with string objects as elements `['bob', 'kim']`. On line 121 the `add_name` method is called passing in the value referenced by `names` and the string literal `jim` in place of method parameters `arr` and `name`.

On line 117, the `<<` method is called on the array referenced by `arr` passing in the value referenced by `name` as an argument, returning a modified array with `jim` appended as an additional element. Method local varibale `arr` is reassigned to the return value of this expression. 

On line 122, the `puts` method is called passing in the array referenced by `names`. This outputs `['bob', 'kim', 'jim']`, and returns `nil`. Although it looks like reassignment is occurring on line 117, it is a destructive method call which will still append the name `jim`; mutating the array..

This code demonstrates the concept of mutating methods: Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

----------------------------
### Example 3 (5:02 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = 'Bob'

5.times do |x|  
  a = 'Bill'
end

p a

ON line 144 the `puts` method is called passing in the value referenced by `a` as an argument. This outputs `Bill` and returns `nil`.

On line 138, local variable `a` is initialized to reference the string object with the value `Bob`. On line 140, the `times` method is called on the integer literal `5` which will execute the `do..end` block with one parameter of `x` 5 times. Within the block, local variable `a` is accesible due to variable scopoing rules. This allows the reassignment of local variable `a` to occur 5 times to the same string literal `Bill`.

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope. To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block. Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.

----------------------------

### Example 3 (4:50 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

a = [1, 2, 3, 3]
b = a
c = a.uniq

The above code will return the value of the result of each variable assignemnt with no output to the screen.

On line 158, local variable `a` is initialzied pointing to the array object with the value of `[1, 2, 3, 3]`. On line 159, local variable `b` is initialized to the value referenced by local variable `a`; `[1, 2, 3, 3]`.

On line 160, the `uniq` method is called on the array object referenced by local variable `a`. This will remove all duplicate element objects from the array, returning a new array of `[1, 2, 3]`. Local variable `c` is initialized pointing to the array object returned by the `uniq` method. 

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers. Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specific area within memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a different address space.

-----------------------------

### Example 4 (Messed up timer)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def fix(value)
  value = value.upcase!
  value.concat('!')
end

s = 'hello'
t = fix(s)

What values do `s` and `t` have? Why?

Local variable `s` and `t` reference the same string object of `'HELLO!'`. When the `fix` method is called, the value referenced by local vairable `s` (`'hello'`) is passed in as an argument in place for the method parameter `value`. ON line 177, the destructive (mutating) `upcase!` method is called on the value referenced by method local variable `value`, which converts the string object in place to uppercase. On line 178, the destructive (mutating) `concat` method is called on `value` passing in string literal `!` as an argument, which concatenates `!` onto the value of the string object. This is the last evaluated expression of the method, and is returned.

On line 182, local variable `t` is initialized pointing to the `fix` method calls return value `'HELLO!'`. Nothing is output in this code snippet.

This code demonstrates the concept of mutating methods and variables as pointers:

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers. Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specific area within memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a different address space.

---------------------------------------------

### Example 5 (6:50 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

def fix(value)
  value[1] = 'x'
  value 
end

s = 'abc'
t = fix(s)

What values do `s` and `t` have? Why?

Local variables `s` and `t` reference the same string object with the value of `'axc'`.

ON line 208, local variable `s` is initialized poniting to the string object with the value `abc`. On line 209, the `fix` method is called passing in the value referenced by `s` as an argument in place of method paraemeter `value`. When local variable `t` is initialized, it points to the return value of this method call.

On line 204, the string setter method `[]=` is called with the integer argument `1` used to define the index position, passing in the string literal `x` as an argument. This mutates the value of the string referenced by `value` to `'axc'`. On line 205, `value` is the last evaluted expression of the method which is the return value of the method.

This code demonstrates the concept of variables as pointers, and mutating methods:
Variables do not actually contain values; they are instead pointers to a specific area within memory (can also be stated that they reference a specific object) which contains the value. Some operations mutate the value in an objects address space, while others reassign the variable which points it to a different address space.

This code demonstrates the concept of mutating vs non mutating methods: Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.
When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.