### Example 10 (6:33 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
def cap(str)
  str.capitalize!   # does this affect the object outside the method?
end

name = "jim"
cap(name)
puts name
```

On line 7, the `puts` method is called, passing in the variable refernced by `name` as an argument. This outputs `'Jim'`, and returns `nil`.

On line 5, local variable `name` is initialized pointing to the string object with the value `'jim'`. The `cap` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `name` as an argument in place of method parameter `str`.  On line 2, the destructive `capitalize!` method is called on the value referenced by method local variable `str`. The return value of this method call is `'Jim'`. Both `str` and `name` still reference the same object. This is the last evaluated expression of the `cap` method; thus its return value.

This code demonstrates the concept of mutating methods. Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.

When performing a method call/method invocation, and one or more arguments passed into a method are altered permanently, you are Mutating the argument. Similarly, when an object or referenced object is used to call a method is mutated (i.e.: array.pop permanently alters array by removing the last element from the array), you are Mutating the caller.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 2 (7:00 mins)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
a = 4
b = 22.times do |a|
  a = 5
  puts a
end

puts a
puts b
```

On line `x` the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by local variable `a` as an argument. This outputs the string representation of the integer `4` and returns `nil`. On line `next` the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by local variable `b` as an argument. This outputs the string representation of the integer `22`, and returns `nil`.

On line 1, local variable `a` is initialized to the integer object with the value `4`. On line 2, the `times` method is called on the integer `22` passing in a `do..end` block with one parameter of `a` as an argument. The `times` method will iterate 22 times (based on the integer it was called on). When block local variable `a` is initialized on each iteration, it contains a value of 0 to 21 (respectively for each iteration). On line 3, block local variable `a` is reassigned to the integer 5 on each iteration, which has no effect on top level local variable `a` due to variable shadowing. When the `times` method is completed iteration, it returns its caller. Local varible `b` is initialized to the `times` return value of the integer `22`.

This example demonstrates the concept of variable shadowing. When a block parameter (captured between the `||` symbols) has the same variable name as a local variable initialized in the outer scope, the block parameter shadows the outer scoped local variable. When this occurs, access to the outer scope local variable is prevented.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 5 (8:30 mins - includes editing and going over for any errors or additional concepts missed)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
words = %w(jump trip laugh run talk)
new_array = words.map do |word|
  word.start_with?("t")
end

p new_array
```

On line 6, the `p` method is called passing in the array referenced by `new_array` as an argument. The output and return value is `[false, true, false, false, true]`, as `p` returns its caller.

On line 1, local variable `words` is initialized pointing to an array object with string objects as its elements. On line 2, the `map` method is called on the array referenced by `words`. A `do..end` block with one parameter of `word` is defined on lines 2 to 4 and passed into the method as an argument. On each iteration, the current element from `words` is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter `word`. `map` creates a new array based on the return value of each blocks iteration. 

On line 3, the `start_with?` method is called on the value referenced by `word`, passing in `'t'` as an arguemnt. If the string referenced by `word` stars with a "t", then the block will return a boolean `true`, `false` if not. After iteration is completed, the `map` method returns `[false, true, false, false, true]`. Local variable `new_array` is initialized pointing to the object created by the return value of the `map` method call.

This code demonstrates the concept of iteration and transformation with the `map` method.
The `map` method is called on a collection taking a block that acts as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration. `map` always performs transformation via the return value of the block during each iteration. The return value of the block is the evaluated result of the last line executed, which is placed into a new collection. When the `map` method has completed iterating, the new collection is returned.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 2 (8:25 mins - Includes re-reading for errors and formatting)

What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
arr.select { |n| n.odd? }
```

Local variable `arr` is initialized pointing to an array object of integer elements; `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]`. The `select` method is called on the value referenced by `arr`, passing in a block with one parameter of `n` defined by curly brackets `{}` as an argument. During each iteration, the current element is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter `n`. `select` evaluates the truthiness of the blocks return value on each iteration. If the value is truthy, it is selected and placed into a new collection; it is ignored if not and iteration continues. 

For each iteration, the `odd?` method is called on the value referenced by `n`. If the return value of that method call is `true`, the block returns a truthy value, as it is the last and only line executed in the method, the element referenced by `n` is selected and added to the new collection; otherwise, we move onto the next iteration. When the `select` method is completed iteration, it returns a new array of `[1, 3, 5, 7, 9]`. There is no output.

This code demonstrates the concept of selection and iteration via the `select` method.
The `select` method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration. To perform selection, the return value of the block is evaluated by `select` after each iteration; `select` only cares about the truthiness of this return value. When a blocks return value is truthy, the element during that iteration is selected and placed into a new collection; otherwise, the element is not selected. The return value of the last expression within the block is the return value of the block during each iteration. When the `select` method has completed iterating through the collection, a new collection is returned that contains all of the selected elements for which the block returned a truthy value.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 7 (9:52 mins - Includes rereading/checking for errors or any missed information)

```ruby
{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }.each_with_object({}) do | (key, value), hash |
  hash[value] = key
end
```

The `each_with_object` method is called on the hash object `{ a: "ant", b: "bear", c: "cat" }` passing in a block with two parameters as an argument. The first block parameter is broken up into `(key, value)` two element array so they can be referenced within the block, the second `hash` is the empty hash collection argument passed in as an argument to the method. On each iteration the current element from the collection the method was called on is passed into the block and assigned to block parameters `key` and `value`, and the hash object passed in as an argument is assigned to the `hash` block parameter.

On line 2, we manipulate the new hash object within the block by associating a new key/value pair to it via the `[]=` method. Once iteration is completed, the new hash object passed in as an argument is returned by the `each_with_object` method; `{"ant"=>:a, "bear"=>:b, "cat"=>:c}`, not the original collection it was called on.

This code demonstrates the concept of iteration with collections via the `each_with_object` method.
The `each_with_object` method is called on a collection taking a block with two parameters as an argument; the first is the current element of the collection, and the second is the collection object that is passed in as an argument to the method. During iteration, the collection object passed in as an argument can be manipulated inside of the block. After iteration is completed, the populated collection object passed into the method as an argument is returned, NOT the original collection `each_with_object` was called on.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example 8 (9:00 min - Includes review, additions, and modifications)
What does the following code return? What does it output? Why? What concept does it demonstrate?

```ruby
odd, even = [1, 2, 3].partition do |num|
  num.odd?
end

p odd
p even
```

On line 1, the `partition` method is called on the array `[1, 2, 3]`. A `do..end` block is defined with one parameter of `num` and passed into the method. The `partition` method will consider the truthiness of the blocks return value returning a new array based on truthiness. When a blocks return value is truthy, the current element is added to the nested sub-array at index position 0. When the blocks return value is falsy, it is added to the nested sub-array at index position 1.

On each iteration, the current element is passed in and assigned to the block parameter `num`. On line 2, the `odd?` method is called, passing in the value referenced by block local variable `num`. When the method is completed iterating, the nested array is `[[1, 3], [2]]`. On line 1, two local variables are initialized to nested sub arrays within the array object returned form the `partition` method. `odd` is initialized to the sub-array at index position 0, and `even` is initialized to the sub-array at index position 1.

On line 5, the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `odd` as an argument. This outputs `[1, 3]`, and returns `nil. On line 6, the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `even` as an argument. This outputs `[2]`, and returns `nil.

This code demonstrates the concept of iteration via the `partition` method:
The `partition` method is called on a collection taking a block with one parameter and returns a 2 element nested array. During each iteration, the current element is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. Similar to the `select` method, `partition` considers the truthiness of the blocks return value during each iteration. When a blocks return value is truthy, the current element is added to the nested sub-array at index position 0. When the blocks return value is falsy, it is added to the nested sub-array at index position 1. When `partition` has completed iterating through the collection, the nested array is returned.