What will the following code print, and why? Don't run the code until you have tried to answer.

a = "Xyzzy"

def my_value(b)
  b[2] = '-'
end

my_value(a)
puts a

On line 3, local variable `a` is initialzied pointing to the string object with the value `'Xyzzy'`.

On line 9, the `my_value` method is called passing in the value referenced by `a` as an argument and assigning it to the method parameter `b`. On line 6, we call the `[]=` reassignment (setter?) method on the value referenced by method local variable `b` passing in the string literal `-` as an argument. This call destructively mutates the string objects content at index position 2 and returns the argument passed into the `[]=` method; `-`. Both method local variable `b` and local variable `a` reference the same mutated object. The return value from the `[]=` method call is also the implicit return value from the `my_value` method as it is the last evaluated expression.

On line 10, the `puts` method is called, passing in `a` as an argument, outputting a mutated value of `'Xy-zy'`. This is due to the mutating method call within the `my_value` method permanently modifying the string object referenced by `a`.

This code demonstrates the concept of mutability and pass-by-reference object passing strategy.

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable. 

Ruby appears to act like pass-by-reference when working with mutable objects. When a reference to an object is passed into a method, and the method local variable aliased to that reference is not reassigned to a new object, thus returning the original (mutated) object from the method, this is referred as pass-by-reference with the language using a pass-by-reference object passing strategy.