What will the following code print and why? Don't run it until you have tried to answer.

a = 7

def my_value(b)
  b += 10
end

my_value(a)
puts a

On line 3, local variable `a` is initialized and points to the integer object with the value of `7`. 

On line 9, the `my_value` method is called passing in the value referenced by `a` as an argument and assiging it to the method parameter `b` on line 5. Local variable `a` and method local variable `b` currently reference the same immutable integer `7`. On line 6, the `+` method is called on the value referenced by `b` passing in the integer `10` as an argument. `b` is reassigned to the return value from this method call; a completely different (immutable) integer object with the value `17`. Local variable `a` and method local variable `b` no longer reference the same integer object. The `+` methods return value is also implicitly returned by the `my_value` method as it is the last evaluated expression in the method. There is no output from this method call.

On line 10, the `puts` method is called passing in the value referenced by `a` as an argument. This outputs the string representation of the integer `7`, and returns `nil`.

This code demonstrates mutating vs non-mutating methods and the pass-by-value object pasing strategy.

Some methods (mutating methods) change the value or state of an object in their address space. Others (non-mutating methods) do not, they instead reassign a variable pointing to a completely different address space or return a new object that can be assigned to a variable.

Ruby appears to act like pass-by-value when working with immutable objects and reassignment within a method. When an object is copied before being passed around (i.e.: passing the copied object into a method as an argument), this is referred to as a language using a pass-by-value object passing strategy. Because the object or objects passed in are only copies of the original object, there is no way for the method to mutate (modify) the original object.
