What will the following code print, and why? Don't run the code until you have tried to answer.

a = 7

def my_value(b)
  a = b
end

my_value(a + 5)
puts a

On line 3, local variable `a` is initialized and points to the integer object `7`. 

On line 9, the expression of calling the `+` method on the value referenced by `a` and passing in the argument of integer `5` returns a new integer object with the value of `12`. The `my_value` method is called passing in this return value as an argument assigning it to the method parameter `b`. Within the method, method local variable `a` is initialized and assigned to the value referenced by method local variable `b`; `12`. Method local variable `a` and 'main' local variable `a` are two completely different variables due to method definitions having isolated scopes. The initialization of `a` on line 6 is the last evaluated expression and integer `12` is implicitly returned by the method.

On line 10, the `puts` method is called passing in `a` as an arugment which outputs the string representation of integer `7`, and returns `nil`.

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope. To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block. Methods have self-contained scope. Within a method definition, we can only reference or modify values of variables in the methods body that are initialized within the body of the method. 