What will the following code print, and why? Don't run the code until you have tried to answer.

a = 7
array = [1, 2, 3]

array.each do |element|
  a = element
end

puts a

On line 7, local variable `a` is initialized pointing to the integer object with the value of `7`. On line 4, local varaible `array` is initialized pointing to an array object contianing integer objects as elements.

On line 6, the `each` method is called on `array`. The `do..end` block is defined on lines 6 to 8 with one block parameter of `element` and is passed into the method as an argument. During each iteration, the current value from `array` is passed into the block and assigned to the block local variable `element`. On line 7, local variable `a` is reassigned during each iteration to the current element referenced by `element`. The last iteration reassigns local variable `a` to point to the integer object with the value of `3`.

On line 10, the `puts` method is called, passing in the value referenced by `a` as an argument, outputting the string representation of integer `3`, and returning `nil`.

This code demonstrates the concept of local variable scope and iteration with the `each` method.

To determine where a variable is available for use within a program, Ruby uses variable scope. Where a variable is initialized in a program is where its variable scope is defined by either a method definition or a block. Variable Scope with Blocks Rule - INNER SCOPE CAN ACCESS VAIRABLES INITIALIZED IN AN OUTER SCOPE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA.

The each method is called on a collection taking a block as an argument. During each iteration, the current elements value is passed into the block and assigned to the block parameter. The code is then executed for each iteration, with the each method not considering the return value of the block, until each is done iterating. Once the each method is done iterating, it returns its caller (the ORIGINAL COLLECTION).